---
title: spring migrants arriving
---
<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">So it begins. . . Spring migrants are arriving throughout the county, and for these few days before the trees really leaf out the views can be pretty great. &nbsp;This means sleep deprived birders can be found all over the area, and they're reporting lots of 'first of the season' sightings.<br />On April 17th a group of us headed to Moore's Creek Reservoir to see what we might find. &nbsp;If you haven't been there its a very nice hike - drive out BlueGrass Trail 1.7 miles past where it changes to gravel, then right on Forest Service Rd 3079 for about a mile to the parking area. Highlights included several warblers (including great views of a number of Black and White's circling the trunks of some oaks), and a Red Shouldered Hawk flying over the water. Here's the list of what we saw and heard;<br />Fish Crow<br />Red Tail Hawk<br />Titmouse<br />Blue Jay<br />Northern Cardinal<br />Raven<br />Louisiana Waterthrush<br />Cowbird<br />American Crow<br />Blue Headed Vireo<br />Black-throated Green Warbler<br />Turkey Vulture<br />Hooded Warbler<br />Chickadee<br />Red Shouldered Hawk<br />Red Bellied Woodpecker<br />Downy Woodpecker<br />Pileated Woodpecker<br />Ovenbird<br />Pine Warbler<br />Black and White Warbler<br />Carolina Wren<br />Kingfisher<br />Blue Grey Gnatcatcher<br />Ruby Crowned Kinglet<br />Hairy Woodpecker<br />Mourning Dove<br /><br />We're planning to make a regular thing of these Thursday morning outings. &nbsp;We'll let everyone know where we plan to go and when and where we'll meet each week.<br /><br /><em>Bob Biersack</em><br /><br /><font size="3">Here's a report from Alexia about the club's outing to Brushy Hills on April 19.&nbsp;</font><br /><br />A small group met at 7 am at Town Spring and explored for birds, Paul Cabe leading along with his son Lock (founder of the Kids' Bird Club). &nbsp;Below is the list of species heard and/or seen. &nbsp;We were especially delighted to hear a wood thrush singing, first of the season for most of us. &nbsp;<br /><br />Several times along the trail we heard ovenbirds "teacher"-ing but couldn't find them; as Paul remarked, they tend to stay still while singing and, without movement, are hard to spot. &nbsp;Then, towards the end of our walk, Lock saw an ovenbird perched on a branch, not making a sound, moving only its head as it occasionally looked around! &nbsp;The rest of us were one by one able to pick it out against the dry-leaves background. &nbsp;<br /><br />Broad-winged hawkRed-tailed hawk<br />Red-bellied woodpecker<br />Downy woodpecker (including a pair foraging together)<br />Northern flicker<br />Pileated woodpecker<br />Blue-headed vireo (heard)<br />Blue jay<br />American crow<br />Tufted titmouse<br />Carolina chickadee<br />White-breasted nuthatch<br />Carolina wren<br />Blue-gray gnatcatcher<br />Eastern bluebird<br />American robin<br />Wood thrush<br />Black-throated green warbler (heard)<br />Ovenbird<br />Northern cardinal<br />Eastern towhee<br />White-throated sparrow<br />Brown-headed cowbird<br />American goldfinch<br /><br /><em>Alexis Smith</em><br /><br /><font size="3">Dick Rowe has also reported on some late week birding;</font><br /><br />I did a little birding on Thurs and Friday afternoons.&nbsp; On Thursday I visited Old Farm Rd Pond and Sky Farm (both are private spots).&nbsp; At OFRP, there were 3 female Ring-necked Ducks, several Swamp Sparrows, 3 Yellow-rumped Warblers, lots of Tree and Rough-winged Swallows, and 2 Pied-billed Grebes.&nbsp; The grebes are interesting because in 2011 a pair nested there.&nbsp; Go to this link and scroll down to see the photos of the PBGR at OFRP.&nbsp; They represent one of the few, nesting records for PBGR in the mountains and valley region of VA.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/vmibiology/sets/72157626122644696/" style="">https://www.flickr.com/photos/vmibiology/sets/72157626122644696/</a><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>On Thrus, Kerry Kilday located a White-eyed Vireo at McCormick&rsquo;s Farm.&nbsp; I went up there this afternoon to&nbsp; look for it.&nbsp; I found it along the nature trail where it parallels Marl Creek.&nbsp; There were a number of Ruby-crowned Kinglets there and a single Solitary Sandpiper at the back pond, which is now full.&nbsp; Kerry found 3 SOSA there yesterday.&nbsp; In addition there were several Blue-gray Gnatchers there.&nbsp; Last weekend I found 2 Purple Finches there, but none were seen or heard today.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>I&rsquo;ve posted some photos of the White-eyed Vireo, Swamp Sparrows, and Pied-billed Grebes on the Flickr site, if you are interested.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/vmibiology/" style="">https://www.flickr.com/photos/vmibiology/</a><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><em>Dick Rowe</em><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><br /><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><span style="color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12px; line-height: normal;"></span></div>
