---
title: Potluck at boxerwood on may 14
---
<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">The Rockbridge Bird Club will host a potluck dinner at Boxerwood on Wednesday, May 14, from 5:00 to 7:30. You may arrive earlier, at 4:30, for a short tour of some bird-friendly shrubs led by Faith Vosburgh, Boxerwood&rsquo;s horticulturist. We hope you&rsquo;ll join us&mdash;children and guests welcome, too&mdash;to share your birding stories and enjoy the spring beauty of the garden. The potluck will be held at the timber -frame pavilion located near the driveway to the Lodge.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>  The Club will be providing hamburgers, brats, buns and drinks. We would like to get an accurate count of how many people to expect, and so are asking that you RSVP. We are trying an online program, Sign-Up Genius, where you can RSVP and sign up to bring a dish or assist with the event.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>  The Bird Club&rsquo;s Sign-Up Genius page is <a href="http://www.signupgenius.com/go/10C0B44A4A92BA1FC1-maypotluck" style="">here</a>. When you click on the link, you will be taken to our potluck page. Here you have 2 options: <br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>  1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Create an account with Sign-Up Genius. This requires providing your name, email address, and a password. Your email address and password will remain private. Once you do this, you can RSVP and decide what item you would like to provide for the event. If you change your mind later, your account lets you edit your RSVP or your item. Sign-up Genius will send you an email reminder 2 days before the event.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>    2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Or, use the Sign-Up Genius page without setting up an account. This option requires entering your name and an email address. Your email address will remain private. Then you may RSVP and enter the item you would like to provide. The downside to this option is that you will not be able to change your RSVP/item as easily if you do not have an account. Instead you can just let Betty Besal know what has changed. Sign-up Genius will send you an email reminder 2 days before the event.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>    The Sign-Up Genius program is used by thousands of groups to organize their events. The program&rsquo;s creators are very focused on users&rsquo; security. While it may take a little of the spontaneity away from having a potluck, we hope that it will help us better organize and enjoy this event, so we do ask that you give it try. If you have had ENOUGH of doing things online, we understand. In that case, just email Betty Besal (<a href="../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#781a1a1d0b19144d381f15191114561b1715" style=""><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="ddbfbfb8aebcb1e89dbab0bcb4b1f3beb2b0">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>) and she will &ldquo;pencil&rdquo; you in.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>  Questions about the May Potluck or the sign up process? Please contact Betty &nbsp;Besal.<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>  See you there!<br /><br /><em>Betty Besal</em><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span></div>
