---
title: Highland County field trip
---
<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">We saw just two eagles, and briefly, but nevertheless had a glorious day! Nine of us carpooled Friday night to the friendly, old-timey Highland Inn in Monterey for a delicious supper and cozy overnight: Bob Biersack and Jan Smith, Adrienne Bodie, Judy Hinch, Laura Neale and Chris Wise, Wendy and Steve Richards, and Alexia Smith. Patti Reum, guide for our trip, joined us for supper. In the morning, Diane Holsinger (our tenth group member) arrived and reported an exciting find on a nearby pond: a white-winged scoter. So that became our first stop on a wonderful day of adventuring by car caravan in the northwestern highlands of Highland County. The day was winter-mild and clear, and the vistas of the mountains, their contours outlined by snot, were breathtaking. Chris and Laura spotted our eagle of the day, probably a juvenile golden, soon out of sight over the horizon.<br />At day's end, eight of us drove to the Swoope area, in Augusta County, in search of short-eared owls. In the failing light we scanned the fields in vain. Then Bob spotted a low-flying shape: it looked and acted like those owls -- but all too quickly disappeared over a rise. Just then, who should appear but expert local birder Alan Larner, who led us along a dirt road and over the rise: there again that shape lifted &amp; flew, from one fencepost to another! Alan quickly set up a scope, with just time for a few viewings before the owl flew off into the dark.<br />It was a great ending to a great day. And, perhaps typically of such adventures, we went expecting eagles and Mother Nature gave us a look at a sea-going duck on an inland mountain pond and a last-minute thrilling glimpse of a special owl.<br /><br />-<em>-Alexia Smith</em><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span></div>
