---
title: tick season is here
---
<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">Ticks!&nbsp; They&rsquo;re here year around, but now their &ldquo;high season&rdquo; is coming.&nbsp; The tiny deer tick sometimes transmits Lyme and other diseases.&nbsp; How can we avoid tick bites while out birding?&nbsp; Here&rsquo;s some information we hope will be helpful, gathered last year from reputable sources (identified briefly in parentheses, and in full at the end of this note):<br /><span style=""></span><span style=""></span><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><u style="">Tick facts</u><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>Deer ticks cling to tall grass, brush, and shrubs, usually no more than 18-24 inches off the ground.&nbsp; Deer ticks cannot jump or fly, and do not drop onto passing people or animals. They get on humans and animals only by direct contact. Once a tick gets on the skin, it generally climbs upward until it reaches a protected area. (NY)<br /><span style=""></span>Most tick bites won't give you a disease, but some can.&nbsp; It's not clear how long an infected tick must be attached before it transmits a disease (a crawling tick doesn't transmit anything). For Lyme disease, it probably takes one to three days. (Harvard)<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><u style="">How to protect yourself</u><br /><span style=""></span><ul style=""><li style="">Wear light-colored clothing with a tight weave to spot ticks easily.</li><li style="">Wear enclosed shoes, long pants, and a long-sleeved shirt. Tuck pant legs into socks or boots, and shirt into pants.</li><li style="">Check clothes and any exposed skin frequently for ticks while outdoors, and check again once indoors. (NY)</li><li style="">Consider using repellants:&nbsp;&nbsp;A product containing&nbsp;&nbsp;20% or more DEET on&nbsp;exposed skin, and/or one containing permethrin to treat clothing. (CDC)</li><li style="">Walk in the center of trails to avoid contacting vegetation. (NIH)</li><li style="">Avoid sitting directly on the ground, logs, stone walls, etc. (NY)</li></ul>After you get home<br /><span style=""></span><ul style=""><li style="">Bathe or shower as soon as possible to wash off and more easily find ticks.</li><li style="">Conduct a full-body tick check using a hand-held mirror..&nbsp;</li><li style="">Examine clothes, gear, and pets. (CDC)</li></ul>Removing ticks<br /><span style=""></span><ul style=""><li style="">Use fine-tipped tweezers to grasp the tick as close to the skin's surface as possible.</li><li style="">Pull upward with steady, even pressure. Don't twist or jerk the tick; this can cause the mouth-parts to break off and remain in the skin. If this&nbsp;happens, remove the mouth-parts with clean tweezers. If you can&rsquo;t remove the mouth easily, leave it alone (the mouthparts by themselves don&rsquo;t transmit the disease - NY).</li><li style="">After removing the tick, thoroughly clean the bite area and your hands with rubbing alcohol or soap and water. (CDC)</li></ul>Symptoms?<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>If you&rsquo;ve been exposed to ticks and you develop flu-like symptoms or a rash, see your clinician&mdash;even if the symptoms go away on their own. &nbsp;The symptoms may appear 3 to 30 days after the bite. &nbsp;A tick-borne infection usually causes no lasting harm if it&rsquo;s recognized and treated early. (Harvard, NY) &nbsp;<br /><br /><span style=""></span>Sources:<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>NY - New York State Department of Health<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>Harvard - Harvard Women&rsquo;s Health Watch<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>CDC - Centers for Disease Control<br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>NIH - National Institutes of Health<br /><span style=""></span><br /><br /><span style=""></span>---<em>compiled and edited by Alexia Smith<br /></em><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><br /></div>
