---
title: quail habitat featured at november 12 meeting
---
<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span "mso-fareast-font-family:&quot;times="" roman&quot;;="" mso-bidi-font-family:arial;color:#222222"="" style="">The whistle call of the bobwhite quail, once ubiquitous in rural Virginia, has all but disappeared. &nbsp;But thanks to assistance offered through state and federal agencies, landowners can bring bobwhite and other songbirds back to their fields and woods by restoring the habitats that support them. This conservation effort will be the subject of a presentation by biologist Justin Folks at the next meeting of the Rockbridge Bird Club on Wednesday, November 12 at 7:30 in the Old Courthouse meeting room. The talk is free and open to the public.</span><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>    <span "mso-fareast-font-family:&quot;times="" roman&quot;;="" mso-bidi-font-family:arial;color:#222222"="" style="">Justin Folks is currently one of five Private Lands Wildlife Biologists in Virginia who provide free technical assistance to landowners interested in managing bobwhite quail habitat as part of Virginia&rsquo;s Bobwhite Quail Recovery Initiative.&nbsp; His position is jointly-funded by Virginia Tech, the USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service, and the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries.</span><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>    Folks will talk about bobwhite quail life history and habitat requirements, examples of ways to provide habitat, and how landowners can get technical assistance (and perhaps financial assistance) for wildlife habitat projects. Rockbridge landowners and residents who want to <span "mso-fareast-font-family:="" &quot;times="" roman&quot;;mso-bidi-font-family:arial;color:#222222"="" style="">get involved in helping bring quail back to Virginia</span> are encouraged to attend.<span "font-size:12.0pt;font-family:&quot;times="" roman&quot;;mso-fareast-font-family:="" &quot;times="" roman&quot;;mso-bidi-font-family:&quot;times="" roman&quot;"="" style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span>    <span "mso-fareast-font-family:&quot;times="" roman&quot;;="" mso-bidi-font-family:arial;color:#222222"="" style="">The bobwhite quail population has declined more than 80% in the past 40 years due to loss of the early successional habitat &ndash; including a mix of native grasses, brushy weeds, and wildflowers &ndash; that quail need for food, shelter, and raising their young. &nbsp;The same habitat supports </span><span style="">other early-succession forest species, including pollinating insects.</span><br /><br /><em>Bonnie Bernstein</em><br /><span style=""></span><br /><span style=""></span></div>
